.TH emu-verify 1 July 14, 2015 "version 0.2.0" "Emu Manual"
.SH NAME
emu\-verify \- Verify the contents of snapshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emu verify
[<options>] [<sink>[:<snapshot>] ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Verifies snapshot checksums by computing against the stored tree. A
checksum which does not match is indicative of a snapshot that is in
some way corrupted or has been tampered with.
.PP
The format for specifying snapshots is in the form
<sink>[:<snapshot>]. The <snapshot> value is the 40 digit snapshot
ID, and can be obtained from 'emu log'. If omitted, all of the
snapshots within a sink will be verified. If no snapshot or sink is
specified, every sink will be verified.
.PP
Verification uses the same checksum algorithm which was used to
generate the snapshot ID. The results of verification are cached in
the snapshot node.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-\-dont-cache
Disable the caching of verification results.
.TP
\-\-use-cached
Use cached values from a previous verification where available,
instead of computing new checksums.
.TP
\-S <dir> \-\-source-dir <dir>
Specify the directory to use as an emu source. Defaults to `.'.
.TP
\-v \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity.
.TP
\-\-version
Show version information and quit.
.TP
\-h \-\-help
Show this help and quit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Verify all snapshots for all sinks:
emu verify
.TP
Verify all snapshots for sink `origin':
emu verify origin
.TP
Verify a specific snapshot by ID:
emu verify origin:53b1e624ccedee864cbba76563522be43360ded5
.TP
Verify last three snapshots:
emu verify origin:HEAD origin:HEAD~ origin:HEAD~2
.SH EMU
Part of the
.B emu
(1)
suite
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cummins <chrisc.101@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.B emu
(1)
