.TH emu-init 1 July 14, 2015 "version 0.2.0" "Emu Manual"
.SH NAME
emu\-init \- Create emu sources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emu init
[<options>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates an empty emu source, with a .emu directory with subdirectories
for hooks, sink refs and the configuration file. The directories are
populated using template files.
.PP
This command is non-destructive: running it on an existing emu source
will not overwrite any existing data. Instead, it can be used to
rescue a broken source, as it will silently replace or recreate any
missing files. If you have broken a file and would like to revert to
the default, delete it and run this command.
.PP
First, the init program checks for read and write permissions in the
specified directory (by default, the current directory, unless
overridden with the \-\-source-dir argument). Once these have been
established, it creates the .emu directory and required
sub-directories for an emu source, and copies over any files from the
templates folder, using the system default if not overriden with the
\-\-template-dir argument.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-t <dir> \-\-template-dir <dir>
Specify the directory from which templates will be copied.
.TP
\-f \-\-force
Operate destructively. If a file exists in both the template and
source directories, replace the source file with the template.
.TP
\-S <dir> \-\-source-dir <dir>
Specify the directory to initialise as an emu source. Defaults to `.'.
.TP
\-v \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity.
.TP
\-\-version
Show version information and quit.
.TP
\-h \-\-help
Show this help and quit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start an emu source in the current directory:
emu init -v
.TP
Use a custom template directory:
emu init -vt=~/my-source-templates
.TP
Repair a broken source:
emu init -f
.PP
.SH EMU
Part of the
.B emu
(1)
suite
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cummins <chrisc.101@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.B emu
(1)
