.TH emu-push 1 July 14, 2015 "version 0.2.0" "Emu Manual"
.SH NAME
emu\-push \- record source snapshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emu push
[<options>] [<sink> ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Push a new snapshot of the source directory onto one or more
sinks. If none are specified, push to all sinks.
.PP
The difference between the source and a sink's HEAD is transferred
and linked against the existing content, combining to produce a full
snapshot of the source directory. This enables emu sinks to be very
compact, allowing multiple full snapshots to be stored in a space
little larger than a single full snapshot.
.PP
Some of the features of snapshot creation are:
.IP \[bu]
supports copying links, devices, owners, groups, and permissions
.IP \[bu]
exclude and exclude\-from options
.IP \[bu]
does not require super\-user privileges
.PP
Emu uses the
.B rsync
(1) file\-copying tool for its delta\-transfer
algorithm, which reduces the amount of data sent by sending only the
differences between the source files and the existing files in the
sink. Rsync finds files that need to be transferred using a "quick
check" algorithm that looks for files that have changed in size or in
last\-modified time.
.SH OPTIONS
\-d \-\-dry-run
Perform a trial run with no changes made.
.TP
\-f \-\-force
Force push the snapshot, ignoring any concurrency locks on the source
or sink.
.TP
\-i \-\-ignore-errors
Ignore errors in the file transfer stage. Errors in the file transfer
stage can be caused by insufficient permissions to transfer file
attributes. Using this argument causes the push to continue despite
any such errros.
.TP
\-\-no-archive
Do not preserve file attributes such as ownership and permission bits
when creating the snapshot.
.TP
\-\-no-owner
Do not preserve file attributes such as ownership and permission bits
when creating the snapshot.
.TP
\-v \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity.
.TP
\-\-version
Show version information and quit.
.TP
\-h \-\-help
Show this help and quit.
.SH EMU
Part of the
.B emu
(1)
suite
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cummins <chrisc.101@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.B emu
(1)
.B rsync
(1)
