.TH emu-sink 1  "January 17, 2013" "version 0.0.2" "Emu Manual"
.SH NAME
emu\-sink \- Manage emu sinks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B emu sink
[\-v] [\-q]
         [add [\-s <number>] <sink> <path>]
         [rm <sink>]
         [mv <old> <new>]
         [show <sink>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With no arguments, show a list of existing sinks. Alternatively, use one of the
following subcommands.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-v
increase verbosity
.TP
\-q
quiet mode. Suppress non\-error messages
.TP
add <sink> <path>
initializes an empty sink named <sink> in the directory <path>. This means
creating a .emu directory at <path> with subdirectories for trees, refs/nodes
and configuration files. If necessary, <path> will be created. Each sink <sink>
must be unique, and each <path> must not already be an emu sink/source, unless
it is a detached sink. A detached sink means that it refs the current source,
but the current source does not acknowledge it as a sink. This happens if you
attempt to add a sink that has previously be removed with 'emu rm'. In this
situation, 'emu add' will behave the same way that 'emu init' does in an
existing source. Additionally the command takes the following options:
.TP
    \-s <number>
set the maximum number of snapshots for the new sink. This is a convenience
option which saves the user editing the .emu/config/SNAPSHOT\-COUNT file
themselves. If this argument is ommitted, the default value will be dictated
by the contents of the
$EMU_SINK_TEMPLATE_DIR/config/SNAPSHOT\-COUNT template file
.TP
rm <sink>
remove sink <sink> from the source refs. This does not affect the sink file
structure and is non\-destructive, except with the use of arguments:
.TP
    \-R
force removal of the sink directory itself. This means that all snapshots,
configurations and all other files in the sink directory will be permanently
wiped. Use with extreme caution, double up to be safe
.TP
mv <old> <new>
rename sink <old> to <new>. This does not affect any of the location of the sink
or its files
.TP
show <sink>
prints some information about the sink <sink>
.SH EMU
Part of the
.B emu
(1)
suite
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Cummins <chrisc.101@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.B emu
(1)
